A HOME VIEW

The little old kitchen had quieted down from the bustle and confusion
of mid-day; and now, with its afternoon manners on, presented a holiday
aspect, that as the principal room in the brown house, it was eminently
proper it should have. It was just on the edge of the twilight; and the
little Peppers, all except Ben, the oldest of the flock, were enjoying
a breathing spell, as their mother called it, which meant some
quiet work suitable for the hour. All the breathing spell they could
remember however, poor things; for times were always hard with them
nowadays; and since the father died, when Phronsie was a baby, Mrs.
Pepper had had hard work to scrape together money enough to put bread
into her children's mouths, and to pay the rent of the little brown
house.

But she had met life too bravely to be beaten down now. So with a stout
heart and a cheery face, she had worked away day after day at making
coats, and tailoring and mending of all descriptions; and she had seen
with pride that couldn't be concealed, her noisy, happy brood growing
up around her, and filling her heart with comfort, and making the little
brown house fairly ring with jollity and fun.

"Poor things!" she would say to herself, "they haven't had any bringing
up; they've just scrambled up!" And then she would set her lips together
tightly, and fly at her work faster than ever. "I must get schooling for
them some way, but I don't see how!"

Once or twice she had thought, "Now the time is coming!" but it never
did: for winter shut in very cold, and it took so much more to feed and
warm them, that the money went faster than ever. And then, when the way
seemed clear again, the store changed hands, so that for a long time she
failed to get her usual supply of sacks and coats to make; and that
made sad havoc in the quarters and half-dollars laid up as her nest egg.
But--"Well, it'll come some time," she would say to herself; "because it
must!" And so at it again she would fly, brisker than ever.

To help mother was the great ambition of all the children, older
and younger; but in Polly's and Ben's souls, the desire grew so
overwhelmingly great as to absorb all lesser thoughts. Many and vast
were their secret plans, by which they were to astonish her at some
future day, which they would only confide--as they did everything
else--to one another. For this brother and sister were everything to
each other, and stood loyally together through thick and thin.

Polly was ten, and Ben one year older; and the younger three of the
Five Little Peppers, as they were always called, looked up to them
with the intensest admiration and love. What they failed to do, couldn't
very well be done by any One!

"Oh dear!" exclaimed Polly as she sat over in the corner by the window
helping her mother pull out basting threads from a coat she had just
finished, and giving an impatient twitch to the sleeve, "I do wish we
could ever have any light--just as much as we want!"

"You don't need any light to see these threads," said Mrs. Pepper,
winding up hers carefully, as she spoke, on an old spool. "Take care,
Polly, you broke that; thread's dear now."

"I couldn't help it," said Polly, vexedly; "it snapped; everything's
dear now, it seems to me! I wish we could have--oh! ever an' ever so
many candles; as many as we wanted. I'd light 'em all, so there! and
have it light here one night, anyway!"

"Yes, and go dark all the rest of the year, like as anyway," observed
Mrs. Pepper, stopping to untie a knot. "Folks who do so never have any
candles," she added, sententiously.

"How many'd you have, Polly?" asked Joel, curiously, laying down his
hammer, and regarding her with the utmost anxiety.

"Oh, two hundred!" said Polly, decidedly. "I'd have two hundred, all in
a row!"

"Two hundred candles!" echoed Joel, in amazement. "My whockety! what a
lot!"

"Don't say such dreadful words, Joel," put in Polly, nervously, stopping
to pick up her spool of basting thread that was racing away all by
itself; "tisn't nice."

"Tisn't worse than to wish you'd got things you haven't," retorted Joel.
"I don't believe you'd light 'em all at once," he added, incredulously.

"Yes, I would too!" replied Polly, reckessly; "two hundred of 'em, if I
had a chance; all at once, so there, Joey Pepper!"

"Oh," said little Davie, drawing a long sigh. "Why, 'twould be just like
heaven, Polly! but wouldn't it cost money, though!"

"I don't care," said Polly, giving a flounce in her chair, which snapped
another thread; "oh dear me! I didn't mean to, mammy; well, I wouldn't
care how much money it cost, we'd have as much light as we wanted, for
once; so!"

"Mercy!" said Mrs. Pepper, "you'd have the house afire! Two hundred
candles! who ever heard of such a thing!"

"Would they burn?" asked Phronsie, anxiously, getting up from the floor
where she was crouching with David, overseeing Joel nail on the cover of
an old box; and going to Polly's side she awaited her answer patiently.

"Burn?" said Polly. "There, that's done now, mamsie dear!" And she put
the coat, with a last little pat, into her mother's lap. "I guess they
would, Phronsie pet." And Polly caught up the little girl, and spun
round and round the old kitchen till they were both glad to stop.

"Then," said Phronsie, as Polly put her down, and stood breathless after
her last glorious spin, "I do so wish we might, Polly; oh, just this
very one minute!"

And Phronsie clasped her fat little hands in rapture at the thought.

"Well," said Polly, giving a look up at the old clock in the corner;
"deary me! it's half-past five; and most time for Ben to come home!"

Away she flew to get supper. So for the next few moments nothing was
heard but the pulling out of the old table into the middle of the floor,
the laying the cloth, and all the other bustle attendant upon the
being ready for Ben. Polly went skipping around, cutting the bread,
and bringing dishes; only stopping long enough to fling some scraps of
reassuring nonsense to the two boys, who were thoroughly dismayed at
being obliged to remove their traps into a corner.

Phronsie still stood just where Polly left her. Two hundred candles! oh!
what could it mean! She gazed up to the old beams overhead, and around
the dingy walls, and to the old black stove, with the fire nearly out,
and then over everything the kitchen contained, trying to think how it
would seem. To have it bright and winsome and warm! to suit Polly--"oh!"
 she screamed.

"Goodness!" said Polly, taking her head out of the old cupboard in the
corner, "how you scared me, Phronsie!"

"Would they ever go out?" asked the child gravely, still standing where
Polly left her.

"What?" asked Polly, stopping with a dish of cold potatoes in her hand.
"What, Phronsie?"

"Why, the candles," said the child, "the ever-an'-ever so many pretty
lights!"

"Oh, my senses!" cried Polly, with a little laugh, "haven't you
forgotten that! Yes--no, that is, Phronsie, if we could have 'em at all,
we wouldn't ever let 'em go out!"

"Not once?" asked Phronsie, coming up to Polly with a little skip, and
nearly upsetting her, potatoes and all--"not once, Polly, truly?"

"No, not forever-an'-ever," said Polly; "take care, Phronsie! there goes
a potato; no, we'd keep 'em always!"

"No, you don't want to," said Mrs. Pepper, coming out of the bedroom in
time to catch the last words; "they won't be good to-morrow; better have
them to-night, Polly."

"Ma'am!" said Polly, setting down her potato-dish on the table, and
staring at her mother with all her might--"have what, mother?"

"Why, the potatoes, to be sure," replied Mrs. Pepper; "didn't you say
you better keep them, child?"

"Twasn't potatoes--at all," said Polly, with a little gasp; "twas--dear
me! here's Ben!" For the door opened, and Phronsie, with a scream of
delight, bounded into Ben's arms.

"It's just jolly," said Ben, coming in, his chubby face all aglow, and
his big blue eyes shining so honest and true; "it's just jolly to get
home! supper ready, Polly?"

"Yes," said Polly; "that is--all but--" and she dashed off for
Phronsie's eating apron.

"Sometime," said Phronsie, with her mouth half full, when the meal was
nearly over, "we're going to be awful rich; we are, Ben, truly!"

"No?" said Ben, affecting the most hearty astonishment; "you don't say
so, Chick!"

"Yes," said Phronsie, shaking her yellow head very wisely at him, and
diving down into her cup of very weak milk and water to see if Polly had
put any sugar in by mistake--a proceeding always expectantly observed.
"Yes, we are really, Bensie, very dreadful rich!"

"I wish we could be rich now, then," said Ben, taking another generous
slice of the brown bread; "in time for mamsie's birthday," and he cast a
sorrowful glance at Polly.

"I know," said Polly; "oh dear! if we only could celebrate it!"

"I don't want any other celebration," said Mrs. Pepper, beaming on
them so that a little flash of sunshine seemed to hop right down on the
table, "than to look round on you all; I'm rich now, and that's a fact!"

"Mamsie don't mind her five bothers," cried Polly, jumping up and
running to hug her mother; thereby producing a like desire in all the
others, who immediately left their seats and followed her example.

"Mother's rich enough," ejaculated Mrs. Pepper; her bright, black eyes
glistening with delight, as the noisy troop filed back to their bread
and potatoes; "if we can only keep together, dears, and grow up good, so
that the little brown house won't be ashamed of us, that's all I ask."

"Well," said Polly, in a burst of confidence to Ben, after the table had
been pushed back against the wall, the dishes nicely washed, wiped, and
set up neatly in the cupboard, and all traces of the meal cleared away;
"I don't care; let's try and get a celebration, somehow, for mamsie!"

"How are you going to do it?" asked Ben, who was of a decidedly
practical turn of mind, and thus couldn't always follow Polly in her
flights of imagination.

"I don't know," said Polly; "but we must some way."

"Phoh! that's no good," said Ben, disdainfully; then seeing Polly's
face, he added kindly: "let's think, though; and perhaps there'll be
some way."

"Oh, I know," cried Polly, in delight; "I know the very thing, Ben!
let's make her a cake; a big one, you know, and--"

"She'll see you bake it," said Ben; "or else she'll smell it, and that'd
be just as bad."

"No, she won't either," replied Polly. "Don't you know she's going to
help Mrs. Henderson to-morrow; so there!"

"So she is," said Ben; "good for you, Polly, you always think of
everything!"

"And then," said Polly, with a comfortable little feeling at her heart
at Ben's praise, "why, we can have it all out of the way splendidly, you
know, when she comes home--and besides, Grandma Bascom'll tell me how.
You know we've only got brown flour, Ben; I mean to go right over and
ask her now."

"Oh, no, you mustn't," cried Ben, catching hold of her arm as she was
preparing to fly off. "Mammy'll find it out; better wait till to-morrow;
and besides Polly--" And Ben stopped, unwilling to dampen this
propitious beginning. "The stove'll act like everything, to-morrow! I
know 'twill; then what'll you do!"

"It sha'n't!" said Polly, running up to look it in the face; "if it
does, I'll shake it; the mean old thing!"

The idea of Polly's shaking the lumbering old black affair, sent Ben
into such a peal of laughter that it brought all the other children
running to the spot; and nothing would do but they must one and all, be
told the reason. So Polly and Ben took them into confidence, which
so elated them that half an hour after, when long past her bedtime,
Phronsie declared, "I'm not going to bed! I want to sit up like Polly!"

"Don't tease her," whispered Polly to Ben, who thought she ought to go;
so she sat straight up on her little stool, winking like everything to
keep awake.

At last, as Polly was in the midst of one of her liveliest sallies, over
tumbled Phronsie, a sleepy little heap, upon the floor.

"I want--to go--to bed!" she said; "take me--Polly!"

"I thought so," laughed Polly, and bundled her off into the bedroom.
